Once you install, you need to do a few things:

1) configure sendmail(see the README in the sendmail dir)
2) configure syslog(just make sure you log mail.info somewhere and you are
set)
3) configure bind(see README.bind)
4) configure the runallupdates script or the dnsblmanager

The first 3 are covered elsewhere, but as for the last I will touch on it
here.

If you choose the runalldnsbl route you will need a user(not necessarily
root) who has write access to the PREFIX/lib dir and files withing(group
access is best on our site).  That user needs to run the following utils
from cron:

0 * * * * PREFIX/bin/runallupdates 
0 4 * * 6 PREFIX/bin/cleanbl

Timeing is up to you, the more you run "runallupdates" the faster you can
respond to attacks, but if you run it too often you will thrash.  Cleanbl
deletes the bl entries that are no longer on your list of publicbls.  

If you want faster reaction(don't we all) then you should also run the
dnsblmanager.  This reads a pipe and upates much quicker.  It likes to
lose the pipe, so at the moment it needs to be restarted few hours.  Here
is how you can do it(assuming you have pkill on your system, if not figure
a way around)


* * * * * PREFIX/keeprunning PREFIX/bin/dnsblmgr.tail 
10 4,6,8,10,12,14,16,18,20,22,0 * * * /usr/bin/pkill -f "tail -f SYSLOGFILE"

If all goes well you should start to see your dnsbl poplulate quickly.  You
can monitor with the accessstats command which generates stats for the
c-class ranges and total.

With that in mind, when you see a bad c-class there are ways to augment the
dnsblproxy to make things much more efficent(but you risk some false
postivies if you are not on top of things).  Once you have a bad c-class in
mind surf onto a site like senderbase.org and search on the /24.  From
there you should be able to figure out if you want to block all of it, and
possibly the network it lives on.  To do this use the listbl util that
accepts a CIDR range and a comment.  it will creat blocks.comment files
which can be edited by hand.  once you are happy with your blocks.comment
files run readblocks and they will be all put in the dnsbl.  To make things
even more fun, there are scripts readhamlist and readspamlist avalable.
The ham list will auto whitelist any of the hosts in a file of the format

w ipaddress comment

called ham.list.

(yes the letter w) that are not on any of the bl's currently being checked
by the dnsblproxy.  the readspamlist will block the hosts in a file
called spam.list(same format, with a "b") if they get hits.  This can allow
you to read in a list from senderbase or elsewhere and proactively
block/whitelist without waiting.  Why whitelist?  the addentry utililty
used by readblocks and runallupdates will not block a c-class if there is a
single host whitelisted on it.  this can allow you to read in the few good
mail hosts on a /16 in CN, block all of the C-class ranges within, without
blocking the hosts you want.  Also, the way the m4 files are setup when a
host is whitelisted it will trump the wildcard record used to block
c-classes allowing you to block all but one(or more) hosts in a block
without extra effort.


